# Prosper Loans Data Exploration## Dataset: Prosper loans are small type loans typically below the value of $35,000. With a maximum loan repayment term of 60 months. Data for 113937 loans customers has been collected and represented below. The Aim of the analysis is to explore relationships between the variables relating to characteristics of prosper loan customers, with special attention to features influencing the Borrowing Rate offered to a loan customer.## Summary of Main Findings:

In the exploration phase, the distribution of borrowers rate represent a bi-modal distribution at 0.15 and 0.30 approximately. Denoting that these two rates are the most common for prosper loan customers. 
Majority of customers credit scores lie between the 650 and 750 range, with the mean value being approximately 700. The most popular loan term among prosper loan customers is the 36 months. Followed by the 60 months term and finally the 12 months.
Initial exploration suggested that no correlation is apparent between a customers credit score and the rate they are charged, but could there be more to it?!
Additionally, no clear correlations could be spotted between the variables, except for the variables which are directly correlated with the borrower rate. Which are Lender Yield and BorrowerAPR.

Further analysis phase, however indicates that, as the monthly loan payment decreases the borrowing rate increases. Similarly, as the loan size increases, borrower rates tend to fall.Also, a slight negative correlation can be observed between a customer's income and the rate they are charged.

Final analysis indicates that, clearly, income range has an effect on the skew of the borrower rate distribution, implying an effect.
As for the loan term, most effect can be noticed with the 60 months term with a clear centre at approximately 0.17. Followed by the bi-modal distribution of the 36 months term, probably because its the most popular loan term, it has the biggest spread over the borrower rate range.
Furthermore, A clear disparity in the rate charged can be observed between customers with high credit scores represented by shades of blue, and those with lower credit scores represented by shades of green, and a negative correlation is observed between credit score and borrower rate.## Key Insights for Presentation

Prosper loan customers come from various backgrounds, with various occupations, income ranges and credit histories. Hence, it becomes a highly complex task for the loan issuer to generate an exact evaluation of the loan amount, rate and terms a customer should be offered. Therefore, prosper loan providers decided that it simplifies the task to assess each customer mainly based on their credit score and the term length of the loan. Income range of the customer also has an effect to be considered. The outliers present in the data also suggest that; borrowing rate is evaluated ad-hoc. This result is inline with the real world, try going online and getting an initial loan quotation, and you will be asked for those variables!Resources:https://www.consumerfinance.gov/ask-cfpb/what-is-the-difference-between-a-mortgage-interest-rate-and-an-apr-en-135/https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/charged-off-debt-must-still-be-repaid/https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qIot9qrvcF8&t=86s
 https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/credit-education/score-basics/what-is-a-good-credit-score/